commodities.md, before:

# Commodities
> [<< back to readme](README.md)

Commodities are tradable items, some of which can be used to produce other items. Other items exist in different categories (notably **ships** and **buildings**). Commodities can be farmed or produced using buildings. Inspiration from Factorio.

- **Food**
- **Materials**
- **Goods**
- **Information**

## Food
Natural or artificial. Natural requires more land but sells for more. 5 food groups, need balance. Food is used in restaurants to make meals

- Vegetables
- Fruits
- Grains
- Meat
- Dairy

## Materials
Raw or processed. Used to make **goods**. Also used to make **ships** and **buildings** (though both are not commodities).

- Raw
    - Iron/ore
    - Copper/ore
    - Aluminium/ore (bauxite)
    - Coal/ore
    - Uranium/ore
    - Stone
    - Wood
    - Oil
    - Water
- Processed
    - Steel (iron+coal)
    - Sheet (iron, steel, aluminium)
    - Wire (copper)
    - Plastics (oil)
    - Carbon Fibre (coal)

## Goods
There are many types of goods:

- Ship Modules
    - Weapons
    - Engines
    - Scanners
    - Power plant
- Luxuries
- Tech
- >TODO add more

## Information
Information is mostly obtained through exploration (discovering civs grants tech, discovering new planets grants exploration data). Can also be produced (research, software).

- Exploration data
- Discoveries (blueprints? Technologies?)
- Software

Commit message:

Adding env. factors for natural commodity availability
Introducing the notion that environmental factors can impact the availability of natural commodities. For example, a planet's geology will affect the availability of certain ores (this will be down to the planet's geological history, core temperature, etc.). Another example would be the planet's atmosphere and climate, affecting the ability to grow certain crops of certain level of quality. Depending on the level of choice a user has in located their civilisations, this could include factoring in seasons, altitude, latitude, etc.

commodities.md, after:

# Commodities
> [<< back to readme](README.md)

Commodities are tradable items, some of which can be used to produce other items. Other items exist in different categories (notably **ships** and **buildings**). The availability of natural commodities will depend on a planet's make-up (e.g. geology, atmosphere, temperature). Commodities can be farmed or produced using buildings. Inspiration from Factorio.

- **Food**
- **Materials**
- **Goods**
- **Information**

## Food
Natural or artificial. Natural requires more land but sells for more. 5 food groups, need balance. Food is used in restaurants to make meals

- Vegetables
- Fruits
- Grains
- Meat
- Dairy

## Materials
Raw or processed. Used to make **goods**. Also used to make **ships** and **buildings** (though both are not commodities).

- Raw
    - Iron/ore
    - Copper/ore
    - Aluminium/ore (bauxite)
    - Coal/ore
    - Uranium/ore
    - Stone
    - Wood
    - Oil
    - Water
- Processed
    - Steel (iron+coal)
    - Sheet (iron, steel, aluminium)
    - Wire (copper)
    - Plastics (oil)
    - Carbon Fibre (coal)

## Goods
There are many types of goods:

- Ship Modules
    - Weapons
    - Engines
    - Scanners
    - Power plant
- Luxuries
- Tech
- >TODO add more

## Information
Information is mostly obtained through exploration (discovering civs grants tech, discovering new planets grants exploration data). Can also be produced (research, software).

- Exploration data
- Discoveries (blueprints? Technologies?)
- Software
